Add new buttons docs - first part. (#835)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/togglebutton/configuration.md

---
title: Configuration
page_title: .NET MAUI ToggleButton Documentation - Content Alignment

> description: Learn how to align the content of the Telerik ToggleButton for .NET MAUI horizontally or vertically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to define, position, and format the content of the Telerik ToggleButton for .NET MAUI.
```

position: 3
tags: .net maui, telerik toggle button for .net maui, ui for .net maui, toggle button, microsoft .net maui
slug: togglebutton-contenfiguration
---

# .NET MAUI ToggleButton Configuration

> The purpose of this help article is to show you the main configuration options of the control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this help article is to show you the main configuration options of the component.
```

## Setting Content

> Define a content inside the ToggleButton by setting the `Content` property (`object`) or `ContentTemplate` (`DataTemplate`) property. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the content inside the ToggleButton by setting the `Content` property (`object`) or `ContentTemplate` (`DataTemplate`) property. 
```

> Here are the scenarios in which the `Content` or `ConetentTemplate` will be visualized inside the `RadToggleButton`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the scenarios for the visualization of `Content` or `ContentTemplate` inside the `RadToggleButton`:
```

> * If `Content` is set and `ContentTemplate` is set, the `View` returned from the `ContentTemplate.CreateView()` will be displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`, having `Content` as its `BindingContext`. 

Reviewer: * Switch to present simple over future simple throughout the list.
* Again, consider switching to a table (as suggested in the TemplatedButton).

* If `Content` is set to a `string` and no `ContentTemplate` is set, a `Label` with `Text` will be displayed inside the `Content`.
* If `Content` is set to a `View` and no `ContentTemplate` is set, the `View` will be displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.

> * If `Content` is set to a data object and no `ContentTemplate`is set, the `ToString()` of the data object will be used and converted to `Label` inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If `Content` is set to a data object and no `ContentTemplate` is set, the `ToString()` of the data object will be used and converted to `Label` inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.
```

* If `ContentTemplate` is set, the `View` returned from the `ContentTemplate.CreateView()` will be displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`, having `Content` as its `BindingContext`. 
* If `ContentTemplate` is `DataTemplateSelector`, first the `DataTemplate` will be selected and then a `View` will be created from the chosen template using `Content` as its `BindingContext`.

__Setting Content to String__

<snippet id='togglebutton-gettingstarted-xaml' />

__Setting ContentTemplate__

<snippet id='togglebutton-content-template' />

> > For a runnable example demonstrating the ToggleButton ContentTemplate, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to **ToggleButton > Features** category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>tip For a runnable example demonstrating the ToggleButton `Content` and `ContentTemplate`, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to the **ToggleButton > Features** category.
```

## Text Alignment

Use the following properties to align the text in the button when `Content` is `string` and `ContentTemplate` is not set.

* `HorizontalTextAlignment` (`Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment`)&mdash;Specifies the horizontal alignment of the `Label.Text`. 
* `VerticalTextAlignment` (`Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment`)&mdash;Specifies the vertical alignment of the `Label.Text`.

## Text Decoration

> Use the `TextDecorations` (`Microsoft.Maui.TextDecorations`) property to specify the text decorations of the `Label` created when `Content` is `string` and `ContentTemplate` is not set.

Reviewer: Same note as in TemplatedButton.

## Font Options

> The following properties specifies the font options that apply to the content when `Content` is `string` and `ContentTemplate` is not set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following properties specify the font options that apply to the content when `Content` is `string` and `ContentTemplate` is not set.
```

The `Content` is responsible for the actual content displayed in the button. It can be set to `string`, `View`, complex object, etc.

Here are the scenarios for the visualization of `Content` or `ContentTemplate` inside the `RadToggleButton`:

* If `ContentTemplate` is set, the `View` returned from the `ContentTemplate`.`CreateView()` is displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`, having `Content` as its `BindingContext`.

* If `ContentTemplate` is `DataTemplateSelector`, first the `DataTemplate` is selected and then a `View` is created from the chosen template using `Content` as its `BindingContext`.

* If `Content` is set to a `View` and `ContentTemplate` isn't set, the `View` is displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.

> If `Content` is set to a `string` and `ContentTemplate` isn't set, a `Label` is displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If `Content` is set to a `string` and `ContentTemplate` isn't set, a `Label` is displayed inside the `RadToggleButton.ControlTemplate`.
```
